---
title: Comprehensive logic basic lesson(conceptual)
lang: en-US
---

## 📄 1. Logical characterization of concepts


### 1.Internal and external of concepts

#### Internal: it is concept's reflection of the character or essence of the thing
#### External: is the scope of the object to which the concept refs

---
### 1. Conforming definition
#### subject one   
Coverage competition: Refs to a stage when competition within the industry is already intense, 
strong involvement of producer and operators from outside the in industry in the industry sector,
phenomenon leading to further intensification of competition in the industry.

the following are coverage competition:

A. a company engaged in the design and development of electronic products enters the newly emerging field of drone development

B. in view of last year's sales performance of the various branches have achieved rapid growth,
the company's senior management after research decided to set up several branches this year

C. after the opening of a real estate company's large shopping mall in the heart of the city,
the customer traffic of the five or six large shopping malls in the vicinity decreased significantly

D. an auto parts seller has decided to add an auto repair and maintenance business in order to further satisfy its customers

E. recent cross border cooperation quietly, who ever thought that white wine and coffee can collide with a spark,
which also makes the track business more rich

##### analysis:
- extract ask question:
- same.
- extract title:
- 1. condition: intense 
- 2. body: industry outside
- 3. result: further intensification
- A. emerging X
- B. set up several branches X <p/>
- C. fit √ <p/>
- match -> <p/>
- 1. five or six <p/>
- 2. large shopping mall <p/>
- 3. decreased significantly <p/>
- D. internal derivatives X
- E. business more rich not equal competition


---
#### subject two
The "self-absorbed personality" is a personality disorder characterised by an over-valuing of oneself. 
It is characterised by a variety of specific features: 
overestimation of one's own importance and exaggeration of one's own achievements; 
a strong reaction to criticism and a desire to be noticed and envied by others; 
a tendency to indulge in fantasies and to see oneself as special; 
instability in interpersonal relationships, jealousy of others, and self-interest in others.

Which of the following self-statements exemplifies the characteristics of the "self-absorbed personality"?

A. I am the soul of the team, and if I leave the team, they will not be able to achieve anything;

B. Who is he to criticise me? He is not even half as good as me;

C. my family is not well off, but I don't want to be looked down upon by others, so I borrowed money to buy a smartphone;

D. I was not invited to such an important event, there must be something wrong with the character of the organiser, it is not worthwhile to associate with such a person;

E. I've just taken over something that others haven't done for many years, I'm not on the same level as them at all, I'm sure I'll get things done soon.


--- 
### 2. Transform concept
#### subject three
Merchants often advertise "buy one, get one free" in order to promote their goods. 

Which of the following best describes the essence of this type of promotion?

A. Businesses like it best
B. Customers like it best
C. it is a money-losing sales pitch
D. it is a means of selling goods by stealing concepts
E. it is a way of selling durable goods


---
### 3. Reversal relation
#### subject four
Concept connotation refers to the concept of the things reflected in the concept of the essential properties (or unique properties), 
it is from the qualitative aspect of the concept of reflection. 
The extension of the concept refers to those things that have the essential attributes (or unique attributes) 
reflected in the concept, which reflects the concept from the quantitative aspect. 
Connotation and extension of the inverse relationship refers to the genus relationship between the concept of an interconnection, 
mutual constraints of the relationship. The greater the extension of a concept, the less its connotation; 
the smaller the extension of a concept, the more its connotation. On the other hand, the more the connotation of a concept, 
the less its extension; the less the connotation of a concept, the more its extension.

According to the above definition, which of the following sets of concepts reflects the inverse relationship between concept connotation and extension?

A. judiciary, supreme court, supreme people's court

B. water cup, hot water cup, large hot water cup

C. China, Xinjiang, Urumqi

D. Chinese, literary scholar, Lu Xun

E. lady, flight attendant, doctor


---
## 📄 2. Kinds of Concepts

---
#### subject five
Klute is a household name in Germany as the "star" polar bear, and polar bears are veritable Arctic overlords; 
therefore, Klute is a veritable Arctic overlord.

Which of the following is similar to the fallacy of the above argument?

A.Children are the flowers of the motherland; Xiaoya is a child, therefore Xiaoya is the flower of the motherland.

B.Lu Xun's works cannot be read in a day, and The Blessing is Lu Xun's work. Therefore The Blessing can't be read in one day.

C.Chinese people are not afraid of difficulties. I am a Chinese, therefore I am not afraid of difficulties.

D. Kornhill Garden is situated on Clearwater Street. The buildings on Clearwater Street are illegal. 
Therefore, the buildings in Kornhill Garden are illegal structures

E.Spanish is a foreign language and foreign languages are compulsory subjects for admission to ordinary colleges and universities. 
Therefore, Spanish is a compulsory subject for admission to ordinary colleges and universities



---
#### subject six
Da Law Office is known for effectively defending defendants in criminal cases with a success rate of over 90%. 
Lao Yu is a lawyer known for his successful defence of clients in divorce cases exclusively. 
Therefore, it is unlikely that Lao Yu is a member of the Gongda Law Firm.

Which of the following most accurately identifies a flaw in the above argument?

A. The Gongda Law Firm has characteristics that its members do not necessarily have.

B. The success rate of Lao Yu in defending clients in divorce cases is not precisely pointed out.

C. The success rate of Lao Yu in defending clients in criminal cases is not precisely stated.

D. The source of Gongda Law Firm's statistics is not provided.

E. Lao Yu has characteristics that are not necessarily present in his workplace.


---
### subject seven
The researchers recruited 300 overweight men and divided them into a pre-meal exercise group and 
a post-meal exercise group to perform morning workouts of the same intensity and at the same time of day three times a week. 
The pre-meal workout group consumed a zero-calorie placebo drink before their morning workout and 
a 200-calorie milkshake after their morning workout; 
the post-meal workout group consumed a 200-calorie milkshake before their morning workout and 
a zero-calorie placebo drink after their morning workout. After three weeks, 
it was found that the pre-meal workout group burned more fat than the post-meal workout group. 
The researcher deduced from this that obese people who continued such pre-meal 
workouts would be able to improve their metabolism and thus lose weight without increasing the intensity 
or duration of their exercise.

Which of the following, if true, best supports the researcher's inference?

A. The extra metabolism in the pre-meal workout group was associated with less fat in the body's muscles.

B.The pre-meal workout group felt that they burned more fat during the workout than the post-meal workout group.

C.Pre-meal workouts enhance the response of muscle cells to insulin, prompting it to burn sugar and fat from the body more efficiently.

D. The nutrients required for muscle participation in exercise may come from glucose and fat components that have recently entered the bloodstream from the diet, 
or from sugar and fat stored in the body.

E. Some people in the preprandial exercise group knew that they were ingesting a placebo, but this did not affect their motivation to exercise.



---
## 📄 3. Relations of concepts

---
#### subject eight
In an investigation into the cause of a production accident, 70 per cent attributed it to equipment failure, 
50 per cent to an unauthorized operation, and 25 per cent to an unclear cause that required in-depth investigation.

Which of the following is the most reasonable explanation for the above statements that appear to contain contradictions?

A.There were 125 people surveyed.

B. Some of the respondents changed their views later.

C. Some respondents believed that the accident was caused by both equipment failure and operational irregularities.

D. Many respondents with unclear human causes actually had their own inclined judgements, but were reluctant to disclose them.

E. There were technical errors in the operation of the investigation.


---
#### subject nine
A helicopter has 9 passengers, including 1 scientist, 2 entrepreneurs, 2 lawyers, 3 Americans, and 4 Chinese.

Which of the following additions explains the inconsistency between the total number of people and the number of people of different identities mentioned in the question?

A.That scientist and 1 of the Americans are husband and wife.

B.1 of the entrepreneurs exports his products mainly to the United States.

C.The 2 entrepreneurs are both Chinese and 1 of the Americans is a lawyer.

D. 1 of the lawyers is the legal advisor to 1 of the entrepreneurs.

E. The scientist is not American.


---
#### subject ten
Mr Chan is hosting a party for his family and friends.
He has stepped in and invited his father's brother-in-law, his brother-in-law's father, 
his brother's mother-in-law, and his mother-in-law's brother.

What is the minimum number of guests Mr Chan has stepped up to invite?

A.1 guest

B.2 guests

C.3 guests

D.4 guests

E.5 guests.

---
#### subject eleven
The colloquium was attended by three football fans, four Asians, two Japanese and five businessmen. 
The above account covers all the participants of the evening.

So, the number of people attending the party is:

A. 14 at most and 5 at least

B. at most 14 people and at least 7 people

C. at most 12 people and at least 7 people

D. at most 12 people and at least 5 people

E.12 people at most and 8 at least


---
#### subject twelve
The colloquium was attended by three football fans, four Asians, two Japanese and five businessmen. 
The above account covers all the participants of the evening, of which the Japanese were not businessmen.

So, the number of people attending the party is:

A. 14 at most and 5 at least

B. at most 14 people and at least 7 people

C. at most 12 people and at least 7 people

D. at most 12 people and at least 5 people

E.12 people at most and 8 at least


---
#### subject thirteen
Among the seven newly elected members of a school's student union, there is one Dalian, two northern, one Fuzhou, two special students (i.e. students with special expertise) and three poor students (i.e. students with special financial difficulties).

Assuming that the above introduction involves all the members in the student union, all of the following assertions about the members of the student union do not contradict the question, except ()

A. both special needs students are poor students.

B.The poor students are not all southerners.

C.The special students are both southerners.

D.The Dalian man is a special student.

E.The Fuzhou man is not a poor student.

---
## 📄 4. Definition of concepts

## 📄 5. Delineation of concepts

